Labor Day marks the unofficial end of summer, and while the prospect of cooler weather and shorter days can be a tough adjustment, at least there is always a great selection of deals to combat the post-summer blues. You’ll have to wait until September 1st to celebrate the actual holiday, sure, but in the meantime, we’ve gone ahead and rounded up the best discounts you can get so far on a variety of Verge-approved gadgets and goods, from earbuds to the latest e-readers.
The 58 best Labor Day deals we’ve found so far
Many of our favorite pieces of gear are deeply discounted right now, including headphones, TVs, and smart home gadgets.
Many of our favorite pieces of gear are deeply discounted right now, including headphones, TVs, and smart home gadgets.
Being that it’s nearly the end of August, it’s also a good reminder that the holidays will be here before you know it. Thankfully, some gadgets — including Sony’s WH-CH520 headphones, Roborock’s 35A robot vacuum, and TP-Link’s X55 Wi-Fi routers — have fallen to their lowest price to date, making now an excellent time to get a head start on your holiday shopping. After all, there’s no guarantee they’ll drop lower in price, even when Black Friday and Cyber Monday roll around.
Speaker deals
Sonos Roam 2
Like its predecessor, the Sonos Roam 2 is a compact and travel-friendly Bluetooth speaker that easily syncs up with Sonos’ home audio ecosystem via Wi-Fi. While it looks much like the original, the Roam 2 has some small quality-of-life improvements, like a separate button for Bluetooth connections. Read our hands-on impressions.
Sonos Era 100
Sonos’ Era 100 smart speaker is a replacement for the older Sonos One, utilizing two tweeters (left and right) and one larger woofer. In addition to Wi-Fi, the Era 100 also supports Bluetooth audio and line-in playback via an optional 3.5mm to USB-C adapter. Read our review.
- JBL’s Flip 7 is on sale for around $129.95 ($20 off) at Amazon, Best Buy, Walmart, and B&H Photo, matching its second-best price to date. The Bluetooth speaker is dustproof, waterproof, and comes with an interchangeable clip and loop, so you can attach it to your bag. It’s a mono speaker, but you can pair two together for stereo sound, and it’s rated to last up to 16 hours per charge while in Playtime Boost mode.
- Ultimate Ears’ Megaboom 4 is currently available at Amazon for $149.99 ($50 off), which is the lowest price we’ve seen this year. The 360-degree Bluetooth speaker carries an IP67 rating, floats, and can last up to 20 hours on a single charge. The button on the top can even be programmed to start a playlist on Spotify, Amazon Music, or Apple Music.
Beats Pill (2024)
The 2024 Beats Pill offers improved sound, USB-C, and native support for Find My and voice assistants on both iOS and Android. It also bests the previous model with double the battery life (24 hours) and IP67 water resistance. Read our review.
Headphone and earbuds deals
Apple AirPods 4
Apple’s AirPods 4 improve on previous models with better sound, clearer voice calls, and an even more comfortable design. For $50 extra, you can purchase a model with active noise cancellation and wireless charging. Read our review.
Beats Studio Pro
The latest Beats Studio Pro feature improved noise cancellation, sound quality, and comfort. They also support lossless audio over USB-C, making them the first Apple headphones to do so. Read our review.
- Sony’s budget-friendly WH-CH520 are matching their all-time low of around $38 ($31 off) at Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. The on-ear headphones can tap into Google’s Find My Device network and support multipoint Bluetooth connectivity, so you can keep them paired to two devices simultaneously. They also support Fast Pair on Android and can last up to 50 hours per charge, which is impressive for a pair of budget-friendly cans.
- You can now buy the latest AirPods Max with USB-C starting at $479.99 at Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. Apple’s over-ear headphones combine excellent sound with powerful noise cancellation and a natural-sounding transparency mode. They also feature deep integration with other Apple products and a premium stainless steel / aluminum build that makes them stand out from plastic rivals, even if they’re somewhat heavy to wear during long listening sessions. Read our review of the original model.
Sonos Ace
The Sonos Ace are the company’s first set of wireless headphones. They feature a premium, comfortable build and active noise cancellation, along with compatibility with Sonos Arc and other Sonos soundbars. Read our review.
Beats Studio Buds Plus
The Beats Studio Buds Plus offer better sound and noise cancellation than the original pair, and they now come in a unique translucent color option. Read our review.
- Bose noise-canceling QuietComfort Earbuds are some of the best mid-tier earbuds we’ve tested, and they’re currently on sale at Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart for around $149.99 ($30 off), matching their second-best price to date. The wireless earbuds are comfortable to wear, and last around eight hours per charge with ANC enabled. We liked the way they sounded out of the box and appreciated their five-band EQ, which allowed us to tune them to our tastes. Read our hands-on impressions.
Sony WH-1000XM4
Sony’s WH-1000XM4 noise-canceling headphones still offer plenty of bang for your buck with excellent ANC, lively sound, and lengthy battery life. They’re not the company’s latest, but they remain an excellent buy. Read our review.
Bose QuietComfort Headphones
Bose’s QuietComfort Headphones, which replace the QuietComfort 45, have adjustable noise cancellation and the ability to set custom modes. However, they lack immersive audio mode and the higher-quality Bluetooth found in the QuietComfort Ultra Headphones.
Smart home deals
Tovala’s smart oven / air fryer combo is designed to be used in conjunction with its scannable meal kits, which let you make tasty meals in about 20 minutes. Right now, you can get it for free when you buy it from Tovala and order meals six times over six months. Each meal costs around $12.99. Read our review.
Blink’s second-gen Video Doorbell records 1080p video in a 1:1 aspect ratio to show their entire body. It comes with a Sync Module that acts as a hub and helps extend its battery life to roughly two years. Clips are stored in the cloud for a subscription fee of $3 per month, or locally using Blink’s Sync Module and a microSD card.
- Blink’s Outdoor 4 cameras can beef up your home’s smart security system, and right now you can get a pair at Amazon for $89.99 ($90 off), which is the best price we’ve seen since Prime Day. The 1080p security cameras are weather-resistant and can last up to two years before their AA batteries need to be replaced. Clips can be stored in the cloud for a subscription fee, or locally using its Sync module (included) and a flash drive. Blink’s five-camera bundle is also on sale for $199.99 ($200 off) at Amazon and Best Buy.
- Whisker’s Litter Robot 4 can automatically clean itself by sifting waste from litter, minimize odors, and keep track of your cat’s weight, which you can check in Whisker’s app. It was designed to accommodate cats of many breeds and sizes, and it works efficiently enough to be used daily by four cats. A bundle that includes the machine and a three-year extended warranty is currently going for $699 ($100 off) at Whisker’s online storefront.
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium
The Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium is an excellent option for adding smarts and some style to your HVAC system. As well as being a smart way to control your energy use, the thermostat can also act as a video intercom for Ecobee’s excellent doorbell camera and an indoor air quality monitor.
Ecobee Smart Doorbell Camera
This is a great wired doorbell camera, and the only one that can use an Ecobee thermostat as a video intercom, making it a no-brainer for Ecobee households, as long as you can hook it to your doorbell wiring.
- Mammotion’s Yuka Mini 500H is a robotic lawnmower that looks (and works) like a robot vacuum, and it’s currently on sale at Amazon for an all-time low of $649 ($449 off). It uses AI and sensors to map out your yard, avoid obstacles, and find the most efficient route to mow. The 500H can keep track of up to 15 “work zones” and move between them independently; it can also run for up to 55 minutes per charge.
- You can buy the GE Profile Smart Indoor Smoker from Williams Sonoma and GE Appliances for around $599 ($100 off). If you don’t have the space for an outdoor grill, the handy gadget is a great way to add a delicious, smoky flavor to meats and vegetables right from your kitchen. It can’t handle classic BBQ cuts as well as a traditional wood-pellet smoker, but the built-in heating element does a nice job cooking your food while the smoke imparts it with additional flavor. The resulting meat might not be as tender as it would be if you were to only use smoke, but hey, at least it doesn’t take up a ridiculous amount of space in your backyard. Read our review.
Ring Battery Doorbell (2024)
The 1080p camera on Ring’s latest Battery Doorbell has improved color night vision and a taller, head-to-toe field-of-view for package detection than the previous model. It also features better battery life and push-pin dismounting.
- The GE Profile Opal 2.0 Ultra is on sale for around $529.95 ($100 off) at Best Buy, Crate & Barrel, and Williams Sonoma. The smart gadget does an excellent job delivering a full batch of fresh, chewable ice in just 10 minutes, and can produce up to 38 pounds of ice a day. The Ultra is also easier to maintain than the base model, as it comes with a built-in filter for handling mineral buildup, a reusable air filter, and sanitization reminders. Read our review.
- If you want smart lighting without replacing all the light bulbs in your home, Lutron’s Diva is a great smart home addition that’s on sale for $99.95 ($25 off) at Amazon and Best Buy. Once installed, you can dim your lights or turn them on and off using the switch, an included remote, or an app on your phone. It’s also compatible with all the major smart home platforms, including Amazon Alexa, Google Home, and Apple Home.
Ring Alarm 14-Piece Kit
The Ring Alarm 14-Piece Kit has all the sensors and accessories you need to protect a two- to four-room house. You can also opt for 24/7 professional monitoring by signing up for a Ring Home subscription, which costs between $10 and $25 a month, depending on which plan you choose.
Current Model P Smart Pizza Oven
Current’s Model P Smart Pizza Oven runs on electricity, gets up to 850 degrees Fahrenheit, and can cook a pizza in two minutes. Its companion app lets you customize your cook based on your pizza style and thickness. Read our review.
- Roborock’s QV 35A is available for an all-time low of $439.99 ($159 off) from Amazon and Roborock. The robot vacuum mop / combo uses lidar to construct a 360-degree map of your home — allowing it to create a more efficient cleaning route — and works on hardwood, carpets, and rugs. Dust and dirty water are deposited into containers in the included charging base, which Roborock suggests you should empty weekly. You can even set the QV 35A, which offers 8,000Pa of suction power and a pair of self-washing mopping pads, to run on a schedule via its accompanying mobile app.
- Eufy’s Robot Vacuum C10 is a slim robovac that’s designed to clean under furniture, and it’s down to a new low of $199.99 ($280 off) at Amazon and Eufy’s online storefront (with code WS7DV21XNS06). The vacuum maps out your room to avoid obstacles, and you can set no-go zones to avoid certain areas entirely. Debris is deposited into a 3L container in its charging base, which Eufy says needs to be replaced every 60 days. You can also schedule a cleaning with Eufy’s app or your voice using Alexa or Google Assistant.
Echo Show 5 (third-gen)
The newest Echo Show 5 is just as small as its predecessor but features updated mics and a speaker system that delivers double the bass and clearer sound quality.
Yale Assure Lock 2 Touch
This fingerprint lock is fast and reliable, and the keypad is a good backup option for visitors. It works with Apple Home and can be upgraded to support Wi-Fi — which you’ll need for remote unlocking, Android phones, Amazon Alexa, and Google Home support. Auto-unlock can open the door as you approach, and you can also use a key if you just can’t let go.
- You can buy Amazon’s ad-free Echo Hub at Amazon, Best Buy, and Target right now for just $129.99 ($50 off), which is $10 shy of its all-time low. The Echo Hub lets you control your smart home via an eight-inch touchscreen, one that even lets you check live feeds from your video doorbell and control your Ring Alarm security system. It’s loaded with a bunch of interactive widgets, too, while built-in support for both Matter and Thread means it’ll work with a whole host of smart home devices, in addition to Amazon Alexa. Read our review.
TV deals
Samsung QN80F
Samsung is offering a free 65-inch U8000F TV when you purchase select 98-inch (or larger) TVs. The QN80F features a 120Hz 4K panel, a custom-designed processor for AI upscaling and color optimization, and built-in Alexa support.
Sony Bravia 8 II
The Bravia 8 II was chosen as the “king of TV” by a panel of judges (including The Verge’s own Nilay Patel) in Value Electronics’ 2025 shootout. The OLED TV has excellent color accuracy, a bright panel, and a 120Hz refresh rate.
- Samsung’s 98-inch DU9000 is a massive TV that’s back down to its all-time low of around $1,897.99 ($600 off) at Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. The set has a 120Hz refresh rate, HDR Plus support, and a direct-lit panel for more even brightness. It also has an AI processor to adjust its picture and brightness settings automatically, and upscale low-resolution video to look nicer on a big 4K screen. If you have a Q-Symphony-compatible soundbar, the DU9000 will even integrate its built-in speakers into the audio system.
- If you need a 4K TV for a smaller space, Sony’s 43-inch K43S30 is available at Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart for around $448 ($51 off), an all-time low. It has a 60Hz direct-lit panel that’s great for casual gaming or TV and movie streaming, and includes access to Sony Pictures Core, an exclusive streaming service that lets you watch movies in ultra high quality. You can use Google Assistant to search for content or control compatible smart home accessories with just your voice.
TCL QM7K
TCL’s midrange QM7K has a QD-Mini LED TV with a 144Hz refresh rate, hundreds of local dimming zones for more precise brightness controls, and a Bang & Olufsen audio system.
Tablet and e-reader deals
iPad (2025)
Apple’s entry-level iPad is an excellent tablet for casual use. Its high resolution screen is great for watching video, and its A16 processor is fast enough to handle light games and productivity apps. Read our review.
Kindle (2024)
Amazon’s new entry-level Kindle retains a six-inch, 300ppi display and USB-C. It’s brighter and slightly faster than its predecessor, though, and features longer battery life.
Amazon Fire HD 10 (2023)
The 2023 Amazon Fire HD 10 sports a 10.1-inch, 1080p display and 3GB of RAM, which is plenty if you’re streaming or browsing. It’s lighter than the last-gen model, too, and comes with support for both the Made for Amazon Stylus Pen and Amazon’s handwriting recognition technology.
- The TCL Nxtpaper 14 is a 14.3-inch tablet designed for drawing and note-taking, and it’s on sale for an all-time low of $369.99 ($70 off) at Amazon. The tablet features a 2.4K matte display and comes with a T-Pen Stylus that features more than 4,000 pressure levels, so you can get precise strokes when sketching. Its Ink Paper and Color Paper modes also adjust the colors to look more like actual sheets of paper, which can help when reading or writing.
Amazon Fire Max 11 (64GB, with ads)
Amazon’s highest-end tablet features an 11-inch LCD display with 2000 x 1200 resolution as well as options for an add-on keyboard and stylus. Read our review.
Smartwatch and fitness tracker deals
Garmin Venu 3S
The Venu 3S remains our favorite Garmin smartwatch. It’s a comfortable wearable with up to 10 days of battery life and a vibrant 1.2-inch OLED display, not to mention solid sleep tracking, Atrial Fibrillation detection, and a built-in EKG reader. Read our review.
Google Pixel Watch 3
Google’s Pixel Watch 3 is bigger and brighter than its predecessor. It also features more advanced running capabilities, offline Google Maps functionality, and deeper integration with other Google devices. Read our review.
- The stylish Withings ScanWatch Light, our favorite hybrid Android smartwatch, is currently available for $199.95 ($50 off) from Amazon and Withings, which is one of the better prices we’ve seen in recent months. Although the smartwatch stands out largely for its elegant appearance, it can also track your steps, sleep, menstrual cycles, and GPS workouts (when tethered to your phone). Plus, it offers access to all the basics — alarms, push notifications, timers, etc. — and up to 25 days of battery life on a single charge.
Outdoor deals
BioLite FirePit Plus
BioLite’s portable FirePit Plus cuts back on unwanted smoke, functions either as a charcoal or wood-fueled grill, and fans the flames via a large battery pack and built-in fan.
- Jackery’s Explorer 1000 v2 is a great tool to keep campers on the grid, and it’s currently available from Amazon,
Best Buy,and Jackery for around $448.99 ($351 off), its lowest price to date. The portable power station features a 1070Wh battery, along with three AC outlets, a DC output, two USB-C ports, and a USB-A port. It’s powerful enough to run small appliances — or recharge your phone, tablet, or laptop several times over — and can be fully recharged in about an hour and a half (or less with emergency charging enabled). - Garmin’s inReach Messenger Plus is a satellite communicator that allows you to send text, pictures, or voice messages from remote areas, and it’s going for $449.99 ($50 off) at Amazon, REI, and Best Buy. It has a 1,600-character or 30-second voice clip limit, but that’s enough to get a message through in case of an emergency. The rugged gadget can also last up to 25 days on a single charge, and its IPX7 rating means it’s protected against dust and water. Just note that you’ll need a Garmin subscription, which starts at $7.99 a month, to use it.
Starlink Standard Kit
Starlink’s Standard Kit comes with both an antenna and a router, which allows you to easily connect your devices to a satellite-based internet connection. Download speeds up to 280Mbps are possible, but will vary by region, subscription tier, and weather conditions.
- If you’re planning a late-summer camping trip, Osprey’s Transporter Roll-Top Pack is down to $82.18 ($82.82 off) at REI when you use the promo code LABORDAY2025. The 20L backpack is made from a PFC-free, water-repellent material, and the top rolls up and stays shut with a buckled strap to prevent water from getting in. It also features a large main compartment, a zippered pocket that can accommodate a 16-inch laptop, and water bottle pockets on both sides.
- Breeo’s X24 Smokeless Fire Pit is down to $509.15 ($81 off) at Amazon and from Breeo, matching its best price to date. The fire pit is made from Corten Steel and features a raised air vent and perforations near its rim to provide continuous airflow, which keeps the fire alive and re-burns the wood to reduce smoke production. Breeo says the fire pit’s material will patina over time, so don’t be alarmed if it changes color after a few uses. If you have additional space, Breeo’s X30, which is designed to accommodate eight chairs around it, is also on sale for an all-time low of $1,189.15 ($210 off) at Amazon and from Breeo.
Miscellaneous deals
Mill Food Recycler (second-gen)
Mill’s latest Food Recycler works overnight to shrink your food scraps by 80 percent and convert them into compost, which you can then use for gardening or dispose of responsibly. It has a 6.5-liter capacity, which Mill says takes roughly four weeks to fill, and eliminates most odors.
- You can buy a four-pack of AirTags at Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart for just $69.99 ($34 off), which is $5 shy of the bundle’s best price to date. Apple’s ubiquitous Bluetooth trackers feature an ultra-wideband chip and connect to the company’s massive Find My network, which translates to exceptionally precise tracking if you’re an iPhone owner. The waterproof trackers also run on user-replaceable batteries and come with a host of neat software tricks, including one that allows you to share their location with up to five people or with one of several airlines.
- You can sign up for an annual MasterClass subscription, which provides unlimited access to over 200 courses taught by experts, for $60 ($60 off) via MasterClass right now. Courses can be streamed on the MasterClass website or via an app for your phone, tablet, or streaming device. You can also download video or audio versions of them on mobile devices for offline consumption.
Anker’s MagGo Wireless Charging Station features a MagSafe charging stand, a Qi wireless charging pad, and an Apple Watch charger. It should charge all three devices at their top speed simultaneously, and comes with a 40W USB-C power adapter and cable.
Insta360 Link 2
The Insta360 Link 2 offers the same auto-swiveling design as its predecessor in a smaller form factor. It also offers a slate of new features, including group tracking and no-follow zones.
- You can pick up a three-pack of TP-Link’s X55 Wi-Fi 6 routers for an all-time low price of $139.99 at Amazon and B&H Photo. The routers can create a network that covers 6,500 square feet, deliver speeds up to 3,000Mbps, and connect to up to 150 devices. TP-Link routers have been easy to set up and maintain in our experience, which makes them a great “set it and forget it” solution for networking problems.
- If you have a smaller space, a single Eero 6 Mesh Wi-Fi router may be sufficient, and you can pick one up for $74.99 ($15 off) — which is lower than its Prime Day price — at Amazon, B&H Photo, and Best Buy. The router can create a network covering up to 1,500 square feet, connect to 75 devices at once, and deliver speeds of up to 900Mbps. If you move to a larger place, you can pick up an additional router (or two) to expand your network. A bundle that includes one router and two extenders is currently going for $159.99 ($40 off) at Amazon and B&H Photo, if you need a larger network now.
Update, August 25th: Adjusted pricing / availability and added several new deals, including those for the latest entry-level Kindle, the AirPods 4, and more.