According to a new report from Android Headlines, Google’s next-generation Nest Cams might get an upgrade from 1080p to 2K. Along with a series of leaked images that it says show off new colors for Google’s next set of devices, the report indicates the upcoming battery-powered Nest Cam and its indoor-only counterpart may feature new capabilities powered by Gemini, and that the Nest Aware package will get a new name.
Google Nest Camera and Doorbell leak shows off new colors and 2K video recording
The new Nest Doorbell may add AI-powered ‘Daily Summaries’ that recap your recordings.
The new Nest Doorbell may add AI-powered ‘Daily Summaries’ that recap your recordings.
While the battery-powered Nest Cam is rumored to launch in white and gray, Android Headlines reports that the wired, indoor version may toss a “berry” red color in the mix. Google is reportedly planning to introduce 2K video to a new Nest Doorbell, along with new AI-powered “Daily Summaries” that offer up daily recaps of recorded events, as well as white, beige, and a gray color options.
Additionally, Android Headlines revealed more details about the new Google Home Speaker, which made a brief cameo during the Pixel 10 launch event. The device is rumored to come with 360-degree audio, which Android Headlines previously reported can pair with a Google TV Streamer. The Gemini-powered smart speaker will reportedly come with a “Sound Sensing” feature that can detect and alert you to certain noises, such as glass breaking or your smoke alarm.
Google is also reportedly planning to change the name of its Nest Aware subscription to “Google Home Premium,” as well as add a new “Google Home Premium Advanced” tier, though Android Headlines doesn’t share any details on what they might include.
For now, current Nest owners can update the Google Home app to get access to a bunch of new updates geared toward camera management. That includes new preview snapshots in camera tiles, event notification previews that include a static thumbnail, better live camera playback, as well as the ability to quickly jump 10 seconds forward and backward in recordings by double-tapping the left or right side of the video player.